Israel's war cabinet is meeting to
discuss a possible major military
operation in Rafa in southern Gaza
despite growing calls against it Israel
says it hopes to launch an assault on
remaining Hamas battalions in Rafa Aid
groups and Western allies have warned
Israel not to carry out a fullscale
attack more than a million displaced
people are taking shelter in Rafa as
part of its Invasion Israel is planning
to evacuate civilians out of the city
well satellite images shown show two new
tent encampments in southern Gaza one at
a site to the west of carun and another
site near Rafa by comparing this
satellite image from the 7th of April
with this image from the 23rd of April
we can see the tents were put up this
month meanwhile Hamas have released a
video appearing to show an Israeli
American hostage HH Goldberg Poland in
captivity the short undated video
showing the man in his early 20s missing
his lower arm he was shown saying he had
sustained serious inj injuries during
the October the 7th attack there's been
anger in Jerusalem with some Gathering
near prime minister netanyahu's official
residents demonstrators have been
calling on the Israeli government to do
more to secure an agreement to release
the hostages there were also clashes
between police and protesters and the
police also had to escort farri Israeli
National Security minister itamar benav
to his car through the crowd of chanting
protesters while H Goldberg Poland's
parents have responded to the video of
their son leading for negotiating
parties to reach a deal my name is
Rachel and this is John and we are the
parents of hirs Goldberg Poland an
American Israeli civilian who was
kidnapped into Gaza 2011 days
ago seeing a video of HS today is
overwhelming we're relieved to see him
alive but we are also concerned about
his health and wellbeing as well as that
of all of the other hostages and all of
those suffering in this region and we're
here today with a plea to all of the
leaders of the parties who have been
negotiating to date that includes Qatar
Egypt the United States Hamas and Israel
be brave lean in seize this moment and
get a deal done to reunite all of us
with our loved ones and to end the
suffering in this region and H if you
can hear this we heard your voice today
for the first time in 201 days and if
you can hear us I am telling you we are
telling you we love you stay strong
survive our diplomatic correspondent
James landelle spoke to me earlier he
explained more about those plans for a
military assault on Rafa T cities are
being built uh to try and have a place
where civilians can go during this
military operation where there are
reports of senior Israeli officials
meeting with their their uh Egyptian
counterparts uh in Cairo because clearly
there is a huge risk for uh Egypt that
this conflict this operation spills over
uh into Egypt we know that a couple of
uh battalions of Israeli Army reservice
have been
mobilized but that said uh the Israeli
government has still yet to decide how
and when it's going to carry out this
operation that's one thing they're
discussing today we also know that um
Israel's allies have not yet given any
support for this uh particularly the
United States Jake Sullivan the US
National Security advisor said last
night that look the US and Israel are
still talking about this and they he
said there are different ways of dealing
with the threat of Hamas in southern uh
Gaza so the Americans have yet to give
any kind of green light and I think the
key thing to understand is that this is
going to be a process uh it's going to
take some time to move hundreds of
thousands of people out of Rafa into to
some you know tent sort of you know
humanitarian Islands to use the Israeli
language you know that's not going to
happen quickly uh and any military
operation that's not going to happen
quickly so I think what we're expecting
is some more of a process rather than a
one-off event yeah and James what
reaction has there been to the release
of the video of the hostage HS Goldberg
pollen well as you said um almost
instant uh demonstrations here in
Jerusalem once again people taking to
the streets to say look this is just a
reminder to the uh Israeli government
that they need to focus more in their
view on the hostage situation and not
just on the the the taking the fight to
Hamas now that many people here are
interpreting was precisely why this
hostage video was released was once
again for Hamas to try and put some
pressure back on the Israeli government
not just because that's what they want
to do but also maybe to say to the
Israelis look
these these hostages are still alive if
you want to do a deal let's talk let's
see if we can get something agreed thus
far it's proved impossible but the aim
is to put pressure back on also a hint
that maybe Kata was saying to Hamas look
you need to to show another Proof of
Life video just to get the ball rolling
again well talking of the ball rolling
again what is happening are there any
sense of any talks resuming when it
comes to a ceasefire hostage
deal no not at the moment
uh it just seems that both sides are too
far apart on all the substantive issues
how long should there be a secession a
pause in the fighting who amongst the is
Palestinian prisoners should be released
and when which hostages should be
released and when and which or and in
what order all of those issues they've
yet to reach any kind of agreement on uh
and at the moment with the focus in
recent days having been on the clash
between Iran and Israel and now the
focus returning to Rafa the expectation
is that those talks on any kind of
ceasefire or a hostage release are going
to be put on hold unless something can
change